("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(Robbers shouting)
- [Narrator] Spring
came like a shout of joy
to the forest around
Mattis' Fort.
The robbers rid themselves
of the smell of winter.
The snow melted,
and the river roared
with a wild spring song,
and Ronja joined in.
At long last their
splendid robbers' life
was beginning again.
(birds chirping)
(water rushing)
(bees buzzing)
- Yes, you can almost
feel the weight
of winter rising up to the sky.
(birds chirping)
Soon I'll be so light I can fly!
Float up and fly away!
(soft upbeat music)
(gasps)
(lighthearted laughing)
(grunts)
- Go on, fly then.
Fly away with all the harpies,
to the ends of the earth.
(laughs)
- Great idea.
I'll give it a try.
(horse whinnying)
(laughs)
Yes, Birk, come on.
I want to catch a wild horse.
(giggles)
(rapid breathing)
(laughing)
(sighing)
(thundering footsteps)
(gasps)
(horses neighing)
- A bear or a wolf
must've scared them away.
Otherwise, what else would
they be so afraid of?
(disagreeingly grunts)
- They're not running away.
Horses have to run.
They're running winter
out of their bodies.
(horses neighing)
When they finally tire of
that, they'll need to graze,
and that's when one
of them is mine.
'cause I'm going to catch one,
and take it back
with me to the fort.
- What do you need
a horse for there?
Wouldn't you rather ride
one here in the woods?
It would make more sense if
we were to catch one each
and ride them around here.
- Well then, seems Borka's
Clan do sometimes have brains
in their heads after all, eh?
(irritated sighing)
(giggles)
You're right.
We'll catch one and
ride it in the woods!
(grunts)
(horse hooves pounding)
(light giggling)
(grass crunching)
It doesn't look like
they'll be here for a while.
- Well, I don't mind.
I'm just enjoying the
fact that spring has come.
(yawns)
(laughs)
- I like that!
I like that about you.
You're so relaxed,
Birk Borkason.
(laughs)
(sighs)
(soft relaxing music)
(bird hooting)
(laughing)
(horses blowing)
You were right about this, Birk.
Why should I take a horse
away from where he belongs?
But I do want to ride one.
Stay there, I'm coming for you.
(curiously gasps)
- How about them?
(birds chirping)
(sighing in agreement)
(soft playful music)
(twig crunches)
(gasps)
(horses snorting)
(horses breathing)
(softly giggles)
(ropes whizzing)
(horse neighing)
(grunts)
(birds chirping)
- The first loot of the year.
(wicked giggling)
Let's go! Heeyaw!
(hooves thundering)
(grunting)
(horses whinnying)
(horses snorting)
(heavy breathing)
(shrieks)
(grunting)
- The rope!
- Huh?
Done!
(horse whinnying)
(screams)
(heavy breathing)
I'd love for us to ride them.
Maybe later.
They don't seem
to be in the mood.
(whinnying)
- They don't know us.
We need to show them
we mean no harm.
- Oh, that's it!
(sighs)
(whinnying)
Here, you want something to eat?
(snorts)
(fearful gasps)
(snorting)
That was a close call.
There's no way I
can go back home
to Mattis without any fingers.
He will definitely ask me
what happened to them all.
- That horse!
Is quite the villain, isn't he?
(horse whinnying)
- Villain's a good
name, don't you think?
Yes, I'm going to give that
horse the name Villain.
(laughs)
- You have to name mine.
I named yours so it's only fair.
- Let's see.
(whinnying)
Yours is just as crazy.
(gasps)
You should definitely
call him Savage.
- Sure. (laughs)
Did you hear that?
We just named you.
Now you both belong
to us two forever.
And we've called you
Villain and Savage.
(whinnying)
We think the names
(laughs) are quite fitting.
Whether you like it
or not, that's it.
You're stuck with us.
And we're stuck with you.
(laughing)
(lighthearted music)
(birds chirping)
(grunting)
- Food and money, and all
kinds of supplies. (laughs)
This is a great way
to bring in spring.
(grunts)
- Hmm?
(distant thundering footsteps)
(angrily sighs)
- Mattis!
You'd better hand
over all that loot!
(laughing)
(grunts)
- You're a bit late, Borka.
And I wouldn't even share sheep
dung with any of your men.
Let's go.
Yaw!
- Oh forget it.
(grunts)
(upbeat music)
- Now listen here, Mattis!
We barely survived
the harsh winter.
We're all exhausted.
- Do you think I'll
give you the loot
if you whimper like a baby?
- I'm not asking for all of it.
We can split it two ways.
- You're mad!
Go away, goodbye!
(grunts)
- [Borka] Stop that!
- [Mattis] Go on, go away!
(growls)
- You're a hard-headed brute.
Undis will never forgive me
if I go home empty-handed.
(laughing)
- Big man Borka is
afraid of little Undis?
Wait until the boys hear that.
Borka the mighty,
scared of his wife!
- You're one to talk.
Mattis,
you won't always
have the advantage.
(mockingly grunts)
(hooves pounding)
Wait! Wait!
Don't be rash, it's fine.
(gasps)
(whinnying)
(arrow whizzing by)
(screams)
(horses snorting)
- They must both be thirsty.
Let's get water.
- They're going to drink a lot.
I know, we should take
them both down to the lake.
(sighs in agreement)
(footsteps)
(laughing)
(lighthearted music)
- [Birk] We've
tamed them at last.
- [Ronja] That didn't
take long, did it?
(lighthearted music)
When I say I'm
going to ride you,
I mean it.
Understand?
(snorts)
(grunts)
Well then, ready?
Let's ride.
(whinnies)
(screams)
(water splashing)
(gasping)
(sighs)
(water splashing)
(groans)
(giggling)
(laughing)
That's it, I'm done.
No more riding today.
- I think I'm done as well.
(laughing)
(soft flute music)
(wings flapping)
- I'm just enjoying that
fact that spring has come.
Come on, I must be able to think
of a good reason why
I've been out all day.
There must be a thousand
things I can say
to Mattis that have
nothing to do with Birk.
(soft fast footsteps)
(door creaking)
(distant footsteps)
(gasps)
(door bangs)
(footsteps)
(gasps)
(groaning)
Sturkas!
Sturkas, what happened?
(roars)
Those Borka Robbers!
Curse those bandits!
Just you watch me.
This time,
once and for all,
I'll grab them
one by one, and throw
them to the depths of-
- [Lovis] Mattis!
(groans)
(sighs)
- Borka's gang are animals.
- What exactly happened?
- Mattis and the lads
set up an ambush,
down in the forest
by Robbers' Walk.
By good fortune,
some merchants passed
with a wagon full of loot,
and they handed it all
over without a fight.
Well, they had no way
of defending themselves!
(chuckles)
And then guess what happened?
When they finished
loading up the horses
and were ready to
head back home...
(slow soft music)
(soft groans)
(sighs)
- I can't believe they would
shoot him with an arrow.
- We should have shot back!
- That's right!
Let's give it to them,
just like they
gave it to Sturkas.
(angrily growls)
(fists pounding)
- Just wait.
This is only the start.
I'll crush each one
of them in turn.
Up 'til now
I've remained peaceful.
(hands smacking)
No more!
Now I'll put an end
to all Borka Robbers!
- But what if Borka
plans the same thing?
And they come for us
and they try to put an end
to all Mattis' Robbers?
Have you ever
thought about that?
- Borka wouldn't dare do that.
We have nothing
to fear from them.
I think we end this now!
- That's the trouble,
you don't think.
- Hey, don't worry.
They can't finish me off;
not with one shot.
- No, Sturkas.
There's no way they
can finish you off
with just one arrow.
- [Narrator] Ronja
shed no tears,
but in her heart
she was weeping.
(upbeat Celtic music)
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"Endless Fighting, Part One".
Don't miss it.
(soft upbeat music)